>> Pete DeBettignies: If
you were Minneapolis St.
Paul, are you up in the Midwest?
You already know the headquartered
Minneapolis is UnitedHealth Group Group,
Best Buy and Target.
By the way, everybody applies at
UnitedHealth Group Group, Best Buy and
Target when they're first getting started.
That's okay.
Just lots of competition too.
So if you're here,
regardless of what town or city or
state country you're in, find lists of
companies in your region for us here.
If you go to Tech.mn,
MinneInno and the Minneapolis St.
Paul Business Journal
articles you will stood.
People are writing about these companies
everyday tech companies, big, large,
small private, public, venture backed
bootstrapped, find lists of companies.
Google for jobs just started what I think
they're about a year 16 months in now.
Google is now doing on steroids would
indeed used to do and still does.
Google is doing probably
a slightly better job at it.
All hate mail from indeed
people paul@mnheadhunter.com.
I'm also gonna find list of companies that
Angel.co, startup Angel place website.
So startups, lots of startups don't
actually have any other jobs in
the career page [LAUGH] because they
don't know what they're doing it but
the posted on
Angel.co Stack Overflow indeed.
Go to the Inc 5000.
Inc 5000 is the 5000 privately held
fastest growing companies in the US.
Think last year, Minneapolis,
there was 80 to 90, of the 80 to 90,
I did not know who 22 of them were.
And I'm pretty good at this.
22 companies, now, they came a call
list for me, hi, my name is, and
some of them are manufacturing companies
who never gonna hire Fire Web developers.
But I can help them with the recruiting
strategy for manufacturing hourly workers.
A manufacturing company may need help with
that one thing on the website that you
need some experience in and you can go
do it for them, get paid a couple grand.
And now you've got another thing to show
off on your portfolio that you put on
LinkedIn, and you put on Twitter.
And now you've got to the question
earlier, how do I become a self-taught?
If I'm self-taught,
how do I become a developer?
Here it is.
I promised you I was gonna get here in
the end, it just took a while to get here.
Some more wish I look the big job boards.
I would still look at monster,
I would still look at Career Builder,
I would still go to dice.com for
a tech job.
Absolutely.
Niche and local job boards for
us here in town again,
like I just mentioned, Tech.mn, MinneInno.
Facebook or LinkedIn, Facebook and Mark,
I'll come back to that question, man,
if you can remind me.
Facebook by the way, General Mills has
a Facebook group just for careers.
Facebook has a Facebook for careers' page.
Take advantage of those opportunities.
How I became a recruiter was in 1997.
It was the mid October of 1997.
I answered ad in the newspaper,
old school I know.
But that's how I got
into this crazy world.
But newspapers, a lot of times folks will
will overlook them but when you're on
the recruiting in HR side of things,
newspapers will sell you both the online
ad and the print ad and sometimes it's
like you can get four of these and two of
these and so you spread your jobs around.
So don't stop, I'm gonna do
some better grammar with that,
start going back to newspapers.
Any of the trade professional websites,
job search engines,
folks like me recruiter search
firm employment agencies,
I wanna give you an extra put
an asterisk next to that one.
Here's the thing.
Know this, and this could be
a whole 40 minutes that I won't do.
I wanna do this.
A search firm recruiter,
we'll call them third party recruiters.
You've got your corporate recruiter,
your corporate HR person,
they are employed by the company.
And then you've got someone like me we
sometimes call ourselves third party
recruiters know this.
In general, our vested interest
is with the employer, not you.
Whenever I am submitting candidates
to clients, I normally have three or
four candidates for that one role.
And usually two other search
firms are working on it too.
So you're now competing with 14 people.
One of the tools in your toolbox,
you should be doing all of these things.
Think of it like a toolbox or
you're building a house.
To be funny, your recruiter is your tool
because sometimes your tool, get it funny.
Come on,
I know it's the end of the two weeks.
But come on, that was funny.
But we also know of roles though
that other people don't know about.
I tended know things to do
three weeks in advance,
in the startup space here in town.
So we are good in Avenue.
But a search for
recruiter as a junior developer roll
level, we rarely work with you.
Because employers generally
can find you on the road.
But make friends with us now for
four years from now.
When you're wicked awesome and as cool as
we thought you were going to be today,
you are that person,
now we can work together.